Let's try a different example here let's say I'm creating a simple sum function.
Yes I know it already exists in Python but we'll just create our own a simple one that takes number
one and number two.
And in here we'll just return num one plus num to.
Now if we were to just simply do some 1 and some 2 and I ran our program.
Well let's print it out first
I click Run I get 1 and 2 because it just adds the two strings together.
So let's just do this and click Run I get a type error must be string not end.
So based on what we learned how do we handle this.
Well we can add a try block in here and wrap this function or we can build it directly into our function.
So I can say try
and here have an accept class that says perhaps if we get a any type of error we'll print something
is wrong if I run this I get something is wrong but here's the problem by just doing except with no
exceptions.
As a programmer I'm reading this and I don't really know what actually went wrong because it could be
so many things so a good practice is to always catch these errors based on a specific exception.
This way you know what the errors and you can be more descriptive.
So here we can say type error and this type error we can just say Please enter numbers so that if I
run this I get please enter numbers.
So now.
All right.
My error is more descriptive.
I should fix this and make sure that I enter numbers now.
A common pattern when doing error handling is to do something like this type error as.
And then doing something like a variable.
So whatever variable we want in our case let's just say error.
So I'm saying hey if you catch type error let us use error in our error message.
So I can say here plus error so that if I run and let's do a string here if I run
I get the error printed.
Let me just open this up a little bit so you can see it clear.
Look at that.
It actually gives me the air that I want.
So that I can see that on line five on this line.
I get a type error unsupported operate and I get a descriptive error of what is happening.
So maybe I could use it in my output message but what if I don't want to use this and I do run.
All right.
Everything is working again.
If I do plus error and I click Run and this is actually tricky but it says here during handling of the
above exception which I'm doing.
Another exception occurred.
Oh boy I try to handle something and I had an error within that error.
So this is sometimes tricky but what it means is what we get out here is actually an error object.
It's a built in exception in Python.
You can't add in here the way I have instead and we want to use an F string.
So I do f and then here pass it the error so that now if I run this I get please enter no unsupported
operant type S for plus ant and SDR.
So I actually get this error available to me now if I was to just print this error.
Let's see what it looks like if I click Run you see this is the part of the error that we get.
So it's very very useful if you want to give meaningful errors to your users another interesting thing
you can do is something like this where you wrap these errors together.
So let's say we have zero division error as well and here we'll just say whoops if we for example divide
num 1 by number 2 let's just run this first.
I get loops if I do one divide divided by zero and I run this.
I also get loops so I can handle multiple errors the same way I can also say as error here and just
actually print out the error and if I run this I'll get division by zero or if I do a string and run
this I get the other error type.
So this again is really useful to combine different errors if you want to handle them the same way.
But what if we actually want to raise our own errors that is that we want to throw our own errors maybe
inside of this except block I actually want the error to display for certain types of errors.
How could we do that let's find out in the next video.